This repository contains source code and datasets used in the PhD thesis "Neuroevolutionary approach to metamodeling and optimization of inventory control systems".

Taking into consideration the urgent industrial need in metamodeling automation and recent success of neuroevolutionary approaches in neural architecture search and hyperparameter optimization, this study examines feasibility and efficiency of the combination of artificial neural network and genetic algorithm for automated metamodeling of inventory control systems. 

Since there is no congenitally agreed-upon test problem catalogue for inventory control problems, attention is drawn to several extensions of special interest, namely lost-sales, perishability and nonstationary demand. These extensions are chosen, because they insert high degree of uncertainty and non-linearity to inventory control models and are challenging from the computational point of view. Besides, they are closely associated with up-to-date industrial concerns in the fields of retail and lean-production. Based on these extensions, two discrete-event simulation model of inventory control systems are developed and used as the baseline to test the proposed framework for automated metamodeling. 

The proposed framework is built upon the most prominent state-of-the-art practices. The study describes in detail, how genetic algorithm orchestrates evolutionary morphism of neural architecture and hyperparameters with regard to search space, search strategy and performance estimation metrics. The framework demonstrates solid computational capabilities in classical metamodeling formulated as a regression problem. Additionally, the possibility of using the proposed framework to derive optimal control parameters is discussed with regard to a real-world case study.

Read the following for details: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/341494432_Neuroevolutionary_approach_to_metamodeling_and_optimization_of_inventory_control_systems
